---
title: Language as a cultural artefact
date: 2020-05-11T15:31:25.695Z
autoThumbnailImage: false
thumbnailImagePosition: top
coverImage: /images/uploads/cover-post.jpg
---
The article tries to put forward various viewpoints related to language as a reflection of our cultures. Language is an active tool of cognition. It is a tool of representing/reflecting our thoughts. First of all, this importance of language makes me think about what would have happened if we didn’t had any language. And even it’s the language and words only in which one thinks. Everything that surrounds us has a language. The way we communicate to others, the words written on books, picking examples from home- the calendar that you see, the mobile phone that we use, the television screen, the newspapers, etc. has a language on them. It is through this language that we understand what is written or being spoken. Language shapes and affects our thinking style. Words shape our thoughts. Not only thoughts, they shape and are linked to our culture also, the culture that a person belongs to. The language we use is shaped/influenced by our culture. Culture, in turn, shapes our thoughts. And all these have an impact over forming our language. Language is a cultural artefact. Language denotes a specific group of people. For example, if someone speaks Punjabi in front of us, we tend to assume that the person might be a Punjabi. We often tend to link language to religion. 
Words, thoughts, culture and language are interrelated. Each of them affects the other. All these categories shape our experiences to some extent. A person who knows more languages has more experience in relation to different categories, such as, he/she might know about the culture, habits, context of that language. The more you know about a language, the more you know about its culture.\
We can think here of situation of a child whose parents belong to different states or had had inter-caste marriages. Obviously, the parents would know some common language that they use. The child is likely to know the most common language being used at home. And may or may not know the other two languages, if the parents had not tried to teach. The child is likely to grasp some words and meanings of other languages if he/she sees the parents using it. In this process, the child not only learns the new languages but also the culture related to that language. The amount of exposure that the child is given to a language to determines his/her knowledge and experience of speaking in that language.  Another example can be that, a few days ago I watched the movie ‘Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Gham’. So in that movie when Kajol and Shahrukh Khan shift to London, Kajol does not want her son to forget Indian culture. She uses Hindi to depict and instil the Indian values/beliefs into her child wherever possible to not let his forget the Indian culture. She daily sings bhajans in the morning so that her son learns something about Indian culture. So, here we can notice how language is linked to culture, the role that language plays in introducing one to culture. Language as a whole plays a central role in shaping our identities. It can also serve other purposes also. For example, as it is most often used by people to hide from others what they are talking about over the telephonic conversations or with others.  Therefore, language can serve as multiple roles and meanings while representing the cultural artefacts that one belongs to.